Okay, i'll see if i can get a substrated. And let me add them. Like it was very classy. What you did. Thanks to you all for being here. Thanks to the Organizers told me to keep this positive, which i probably won't. I thank you any way for your good advice.

And i'll see if let's see what you do. My talk here is going to be of is, okay. Because now i'm i'm the executive chair and i ceo. A little more strategic if that's okay. And a little less, Specific. And it's going to be about what does a 70 year old when not quite as old as hilty but we're trying to A seven-year-old construction company.

Traditional. You know, boots on the ground. Do to itself. When the world is changing, is we know that it is. So that's what i want to talk about and that's where the worrying comes in and trying to love AI. That's the second half of the speech. Let me just say, I believe we're in a battle for the future of the cup of the industry.

I know the raw working together. I know that it's all harmony. I think things have changing so fast. And in this battle. I think. The construction industry needs to stick together as a brilliant first speaker. He said. Not fight each other and i'll talk a little bit more about that in a minute, but i think that's I think there's upheaval coming.

And i think the construction industry needs to try and control it. You should try and be in the charge of it. And not have it inflicted upon us. Let me start with a little context just to just because and i'm not trying to brag and say, blah blah but it's important.

I think for context for the little bit i'm going to say Elaston i was ceo for 25 years. Thank god, i'm not anymore. I hope the new guy doesn't screw it up. Completely is going to. It's been a terrific transition. I've enjoyed every second but We've done okay. We'll do six billion in revenue this year, not as much as some a lot more than other seven billion.

Next year, if we can find the people. And we've got a diversified strategy in. Eldestone, we're not just a construction company, we've got the strategy called cradle the grave. Everybody hates that name, but Nobody steals it, so i guess it's okay that way. But what cradle the grave is, is 25 different private centers.

We've got a project finance hour. We've got a facilities management. We've actually got an insurance group. We've got a bunch of other stuff. Uh, we've also got a 200 strong person digit. We started that digital initiative about 25 years ago, where the product. I'm all. I'm sure you all heard.

Called age builder. I'm looking. Yeah nothing. It was pretty junky. It was ahead of its time but at least it got started and what it did do was it? It just helped us start the build the team. So now we've got programmers. We've got data analysts. We've got VR specials specialists.

We've got UX designers. I don't actually know what a ux designer is, but i've told we have a bunch of them and they're very terrific, if there's any of them in this room, i'll meet you outside, you can tell me We've got a predictive analytic startup called compass. That is not only profitable for cash flow positive.

So that's Good. And what's important about all that it's given us about 25 years of really consistently formatted and accurate data which is about 100 billion worth in construction and services activity, obviously, i'll come back to that. Now the core businesses enhanced far more capable than mine and i mean that's as early but i told everyone about six months ago i'm stepping down a CEO, i'm moving to executive chair, i don't have to do much but one thing i want to stay involved with is Digital.

When got to me and what have never been able to get out of my head and excuse me, from being a little slower than all of you digital experts in the room, Was done at a speech with a guy that ceo of open text, you know, the great Unicorn that came out of kitchener water and Guy's name is Mark borenicia.

Oh i said that right. Maybe some of you know it He said two things that i accepted without reservation and have never got out of my head. He said there was all there are all these CEOs all different types of CEOs. He said, Ladies and gentlemen, if you if your company in 10 years isn't a software company, Then you won't have a company.

So face that fact, you're going to imagine how i reacted today. Then he said this, he said everyone's talking about dad, remember this is five years, we said that is the new oil that a data data. Except it's not a boat data. It's about which data this data everywhere.

You got to get the data partner, right? I've been repeating this around dallas dawn for the last five years, because of course, now we've only got five years left. And i've been met with the odd bit of ridiculous. I imagine even a PCL is a Uh, there's a bit of resistance.

Dwellers new stuff. People say to me, Jeff. Stop talking. We're not a software company. Stick to the knitting, dude, we're a builders. We're building company. And that's horseshit. Other than our former division at L is done. I don't mind telling you we are not buildings. There isn't a callus in the whole bunch of us.

But we our leaders in the building process. Which is a whole different thing. I want to tell you one last thing about the open text Mark, Barona chia's hope a pronounce. His name wax speech. At the end of this speech, he said, listen everybody, if you need help on your way to transforming yourself into a software company, give me a call.

I'll help you. So, i did. And i went to see him. And he said, jeff we've got this software. There's going to disrupt the construction industry and we should really be using it. Which means that i don't want to sound paranoid, but open text is up to get me.

They want to take my business. They want to disrupt me before i disrupt myself. I haven't seen mark since i know he's a great guy. I'm going to give you if i may, and then i'll tell you a little bit of a world installing is going Eight thoughts about about this whole talk to not necessarily connected.

It's not a coherent strategy as what's in my brain. And if you don't agree with them, that's terrific, we can have some great discussions as i said. There are people on our digital team who don't agree with them. That's what makes Ellison such a fun place to work. The first is, Then i do believe that the whole edge builder failed experiment that we did 25 years ago was, Built on a solid proposition, that is If you aren't, then if you are in the construction management business in the, in the project management business, And you don't control your own project manager management software.

Then maybe you've lost control of your business. And maybe before long, you'll have lost control of your entire company. That's what i believe. Secondly, and as i said a minute ago, we we general contractors like to think we're in the building business, right? I've often argued with our people that were not were in the people business, and i'll come back to that in a second.

But mostly i think we're in the risk management business. The more i thought about it, And i've looked at a lot of other industries. And if you're in the construction business, in this room, congratulate yourself because i don't think anybody is better. At risk management. Than our industry. We manage our own risk.

But very importantly, we manage our clients risk. That's what they count on us to do. And if you developing a digital strategy, i think it's important to think about why your clients hire you in the first place. That's my second. The third point is important and not everybody in the room.

Will agree with me or like it. But our industry. The general contractors in the subcontractors. We're the ones that create the data that everybody, so desperately wants. And data will disrupt us. If it's not about the data as Mark said if it's about which data, And in my humble view, who better to build and curate the best construction software.

Then the best buildings in the industry. And let me just say, on behalf of all is done, if you want to share what you got with us. I've had this conversation with my friends at PCL. Powerful conversation. If you want to share, what you've got with us? We'll share what we've got with you.

Because down the road. I don't believe that's happening yet. Machine learning, may teach us. But in the next few years, We're gonna have to teach machine learning. Fourth point. Most of the analytics software. I've seen out there today including today, excuse me, is about making the construction process on the site more efficient.

And i think that's terrific. But i think there's a lot more to it than that. Because i think by the me i think that by the time the shovel hits the dirt, i guess that the successor failure of that project is already 70 percent determinate or what happened before.

It's not just about the construction processes. Even the pre-planning construction processes. It's also about the values and the intellect of the people running them, and it always will be We build della's dawn. Not just on the resumes on of our people, but on their values. We call it the no jackass rule.

Actually, we call it the no asshole rule your construction came for your But in my view, if you can predict that, Then you're halfway home. I don't see people talking about that. Fifth point, maybe not as important investment capital in my humble view. I hope this investment capital people in the room always happen to chat with you folks.

Very important to the process. I don't think it's the issue. I think if we get our software and our digital approach, right? The capital is coming to our industry. Now they are they have discovered or in a process of discovering our industry. It's not necessarily the case of the best ideas looking for capital right now.

There's a lot of capital out there looking for the best ideas so they don't miss out. There's money out there, that's one. Number six. Digital will not just disrupt the way we build. I believe it will demolish the structure of the construction industry that is existed for at least the last 75 years.

And i know, I know the organizer said Jeff be positive, we'll talk about. Everybody likes afterwards. Uber didn't disrupt the taxi industry? Hit demolished it. And maybe that's not a bad thing. The structure, the, you know, everything about our industry is my point out and i'll come back to so not exactly.

Like we've been a showcase for productivity improvement. But let's at least face facts and that's the word that i mentioned in my opening companies. Seven and Mike mention. This sustainability will do exactly the same thing. There are two forces. That are going to okay, i'll say disrupt or I'll say reorganize.

But completely change our industry. One is digital. The other is sustainability and they're obviously deeply entwined. That's for another speech. But with these two seismic forces tearing apart, What is existed for so long there is great peril. There is also great opportunity, that's why we're here. Only if the companies like mine like pcl, like others completely.

Transform ourselves. Otherwise we won't be here very long. By eight point my last point, and maybe the most important. Is that nobody has a clue what's coming. I was amazed. We're all amazed by chat gpt. But what amazed me? Mainly was how stunned google was when it came out.

Now, of course, they raised to catch up right for when i came out they went. What do wow? Right. We all think. Thought, that AI at least i did i'd done all my reading. With a boat, bringing the cost of prediction to zero. And chat gpt changes. Everything so much.

The jeffrey hinton, you've probably heard of he's the great Canadian genius. Father of AI which just came back to Canada. Resigned his position at google. Because he believes that. The machines are going to take over. If anybody with them. So, let's all i'm saying is Let's go. Easy on making predictions.

Fast food and flexible. I'll say it in a minute. Lord, that's the end of my comments. So he has been hell is not honestly. We will We are determined. I'll save you. Now we have not yet. Turn hell is not into a software company. We are also according to determined.

To be a terrific construction company close to the ground. Taking on the biggest challenges. Taking the biggest entrepreneurial risks. Controlling risk for our clients. We believe that if we can combine those, true attributes, those, those two great functions. And if we're going to embrace the truth that we have, no idea what's going to happen next.

Then we can build a great digital. And digitized construction operation. That can help create the structive future structure of our industry rather than just react to it. So now i'm just going to talk and closing. About just give you a few words about that. What i think is almost times most important Business initiative since we were founded in 1951.

Called building digit. It's designed to be elaston software future. It's a technology digital technology division that is born out of that, 70 years of construction experience. The focus is to merge that construction experience with the software using the digital platforms. We've already built. And the deep data we've created, where we've got created and collected and curated over the last 20 years and sharing all that with others.

If they'll share with us, We call it construction 2.0, but the heck, It's designed to put our expertise in the expertise that we all have within this industry in the service of each other. And in the service of our class, of course, the idea is to overlap these platforms that are data with our, with our predictive capabilities, Provide clients some contractors in gt with the most leading digital and technology are Custom abs, custom view, dim custom VR others will talk about these things.

But also enterprise level consulting. Uh, for people who wanted. Because as i said earlier, industry is about to mutate into something completely different From what it's been. And we're going to put everything behind this software venture. Trust me. That whole 70 years, we're going to, we're going to put it behind And i'm the chair of the board.

So i get to say that for some confidence. I've been the chair the board for like two weeks. So i'm feeling for the chocolate but i want to be really clear with my last point. All this talking about controlling our own destiny. Specifically includes working with the best construction apps out there.

In fact, we're waiting in the middle of elaston's. First accelerator program. We've interviewed about a hundred construction, tech, startups, and apps, etc. Over the next month, before the end of september, we'll choose a few of them to sponsor to put on our sites to put them through their paces to test and improve their Their systems so that they can go forward with LS Don's full support behind them.

We want to champion these businesses. We'll do everything we can to make them successful. And i want to say to them, if you're in this room we will protect your IP, it's yours. We don't want it. We will protect it and we'll support you in the same way as we'll protect our own IP, of course, and everybody, Well, we want to work with the best minds and we want to make our best minds available to you.

So i can't tell you exactly what building digital will look like over the next five years, or even the next year or maybe six months from now, it is changing and will continue to change every day. Nobody knows what's going to happen. I said that with Show us a great opportunity and we'll go after with you.

So allow me to finish with this comment. We've all heard and mike just told us a few minutes ago, our construction is one of the least i've industries around. Not only are we thinking we just got passed by farming. I'm told If we can stop thinking of buildings as physical structures, i'm talking specifically now to those of you in the construction industry.

And begin to understand these buildings as an experience. They used to protect us from the cold and the heat in the weather. Now they are an experience for the people who are in the, we need to think of them that way. And if we can think of buildings, even further, not just as providers of a complete digital experience.

But as digital entities in themselves and i'm coming referring, obviously to the digital twin. I don't think it will be long before. The reality will be that the building. Is really what sits on your laptop? That's where it's maintained, that's where it's services, are created and delivered. And then it happens over there and that physical big thing.

It's the non-digital twin sitting in them. On the lot, that will be the lesson. And that the real money. Lies not in improving our productivity, although that's important. But in recreating our entire industry. If we do that Canada will continue to lead the world where we have for a long time in building expertise.

And an entrepreneurial. Creativity. That's our goal. I'm sure is all your goals. We love to do it with you. Thank you very much.
